>> Will Sentance: So pair programming.
There is no better way to
grow as a software engineer.
The reason being, we said at the start, as
people shared resources like Pluralsight.
It was Sean who shared that.
Pluralsight is video driven.
These resources are solid.
They're excellent.
Well, I don't love Pluralsight
as much as Frontend Masters,
one of the best resources for videos.
Well, it's the best by a long way.
For real, it's clearly the best.
But those are only legit
if you're using them,
wielding them to solve problems you're
getting in your day to day work.
So if you're an aspiring engineer and
you're not working on tough JavaScript
problems every day, then you fall into
the trap of what I call easy learning.
Easy learning is learning where you don't
hit blocks and therefore you don't grow.
So how do you do what I call
hard learning that's effective
that actually is what makes
you grow as an engineer?
Well, you do things like
tough coding challenges.
You build projects.
You have assignments.
But the problem with those is
it's super tempting to do what?
To do anything else besides that.
Including, so
we might be making a cup of tea.
Whatever.
But even if it's not that,
even if the other person's like, no, no,
I can actually push through them.
You may still fall into two traps.
I call it the researcher
versus the Stack Overflower.
This is the researcher.
That's my magnifying glass.
I need to spell that out unfortunately
because clearly I've been told
nobody ever recognizes
what this symbol is.
And a Stack Overflower.
Ideally, as a software engineer,
we're always balancing these two extremes.
I wanna understand everything and
how it's working, but
I simultaneously gotta
make it work sometimes.
Just make it work without
understanding every piece.
We're always balancing these two needs.
As a pro engineer facing tough challenges,
we've hopefully learned to
balance that effectively.
But we could always get better at it,
and the best way I know to get
the balance right is pair programming.
Pair programming,
by separating the concerns.
On the one side we have James,
on the other, we have Blessing.
James and Blessing are working
through a challenge together.
Let's say Blessing is what's called our
navigator, and James is our driver.
Blessing is at no point
ever allowed to type.
She's not allowed to put
her hands on the keyboard.
But she is responsible for
the problem solving of the challenge.
That is to say, Blessing is
the one who is gonna verbalize and
approach both an over all strategy and
a line by line execution of the code
that James is then gonna
interpret into actual code.
She is never gonna take
control of the keyboard.
She's never just gonna say, James,
you mind if I just show you what I mean?
>> [SOUND].
>> Will Sentance: Instead this separation
concerns is gonna ensure that Blessing
can't ever become a researcher for
ten hours, reading every last thing about
the new keyword because she's
got James sitting there waiting.
But nor can she just be
a Stack Overflower, make it work, plug and
play script person because James needs to
know a bit more about why we're doing it.
What is our strategy here?
What are we doing line by line?
But also by her not being allowed to say,
James,
let me just show you, her technical
communication, the ability for
her to explicate her approach and make
it meaningful to somebody else is vital.
It's a thing we look for in codes with
interviews more than [INAUDIBLE].
We've turned down many people for
Codesmith who've been JavaScript engineers
for four or five years, because their
technical communication is not there.
And yet
that is what makes a senior developer.
Mid level developer,
take any feature, implement it.
Even if they've never
seen the concept before,
because they've learned how
to break through blocks.
Senior developer can take any feature and
they can empower a team,
their colleagues, to implement it,
because their ability to take
their internal mental model of the code
and make it meaningful to somebody else.
That is what we're training
on when we pair program.
All right,
which means one machine between two.
It means switching over role
every ten minutes or so.
It means, by the way, if your partner is
going down a path you think's a mistake,
let it get to the point
where they press run.
And they see the error and
then debug it together.
Don't say,
I think you went the wrong way here.
Very, very effective.
All right, people.
There it is.
You're gonna go to csbin.io.
This is for our online focus world.
You're going to csbin.io/promises.
Get to it, start working through them,
and we will reconvene shortly.